everybody welcome Eckener in lanta
combining Madagascar's plus I'm very
excited today I'm in a good mood we're
closing in on 10 wins and look at that
shielded tears not a great rate of fire
but our other stats are at least a
decent luck is better than zero and a
speed temp Ruka hold me three HP at
least VW n c9 sqw Sheila tears with a
bad rate of fire it's one of those
things where shielded tears is like
pretty sweet but having a bad rate of
fire but it's like you know it's been a
while since I was in like senior year
math class what is it called when a
function is like flat and then it has a
fairly sudden slope and then it gets
flat again not assam total but it's like
it's a cube function or something like
that anyway the point is there's like a
point there's there's a value of x where
x is our rate of fire we're shielded
tears are more trouble than they're
actually worth i'm not sure if 13 is bad
enough to warrant that and the truth is
you know things are oftentimes a little
bit more complicated than they seem some
enemies it's going to be better to have
them against than others like being able
to block shots from Boney's is really
useful being able to block shots from
you know these guys is worth almost
nothing that when a nelson house anyway
now they got all that nerd stuff out of
the way let's move along here we've been
playing well good momentum there is a
tinted rock available if we can find a
bomb I think the boomerang like this is
going to be like the nitpicky thing I've
ever said about Isaac they should
rebalance the boomerang so that wait a
minute was there consumable I could get
with the boomerang there's like one
penny back there right I didn't even
think about that
this should rebalance the boomerang so
that it doesn't cause you to stop
shooting for so long when you use it
okay well fine we'll shoot this like
it's just annoying that using the
boomerang necessarily incurs a little
bit
damage downgrade you know what I mean I
don't know if we really want to shoot
all these but you'll see buying a spear
dart in the first floor tends to be
fairly useful like it sucks that the
cost for using the boomerang effectively
comes down to it causes you to not be
able to shoot for like half the duration
the enemy's frozen it's not bad like
there's still good purposes for it for
crowd control and all that you might say
well if you could do that and you can
spam it endlessly then what's the cost
to it well the cost to it is that it's
taken up your space bar slot the same
cost that is like oh this is bad
yeah the same cost of like every space
bar in this guy just endlessly summons
spiders we really might as well just
ghost him as quickly as we possibly can
because if you summon spiders there's no
real reason for us to kill them because
he'll just summon them again and we'll
spend like you know half of our time or
you know probably like 80% of our time
on this boss fight just trying to deal
with you know things that can be
resented basically endlessly which is
why I'm actually pretty stoked to be of
the boomerang we can interrupt his
attacks a little bit come on come on
come on come on just kill him before he
spas it freaking spider again there we
go we're gonna be fine HP got a little
dicey but it's not unexpected given the
champion Ragman fight this is probably
the hardest first floor boss fight some
of them can get pretty bad I'm going to
go back and explore to try to make sure
that we can get a spirit hour for the
next floor but like there's fistula on a
tiny room can also be really really
annoying especially because I think it's
like less of a risk than the Ragman
fight but because fistula does more
damage if you've got less HP it might be
a little bit worse overall
there's like actually so many ways for
us to get a spirit hog for the easiest
one is for you to just drop a bomb you
can also drop a nickel then that gives
us a pretty good shot of getting one
from the shop whether it's via you know
spirit heart or bomb into tinted rock
into spear and heart just getting a
little like okay you know what goodbye
boss rush wasn't interested in dealing
with you anyway every single one of our
boomerang charges is just hitting a
spider instead except for that one which
hit nothing at all be careful what you
wish for no matter how good you are at
Isaac you know in the end there is a
little bit of a of a stat determination
you know are your stats good enough to
make it and right now like we could not
win the run conceivably on the back of
our current stats we're not necessarily
super far away but you know five minutes
to get through the first floor is a
pretty good indication that we're in a
tough spot we're also not going to be
leaving here with a with the spirit
heart and let's get pretty lucky so
start this one of these two paying that
would be really nice
both of these are all four of these pay
now would be really nice
I got shielded tears don't step to me
orange fire you got no chance
well I resent doing this level of due
diligence and falling short it is still
the right decision and the results do
not necessarily change that so we're
going to head down here enter through
the hole in the floor and see what we
can get she looked at man the big brown
eyes said we'll see what we can get up
above a baby we'll see what we can get I
want to rhyme it would settle in there
somewhere because I think that's you
know fitting for the lyrics of the song
but I can't fuse something you're never
gonna set to see it doesn't it's got a
finish on the
syllable in order to make the song work
right now this run is a freakin snooze
man you know I've come into the video
all excited oh we're going to possibly
get to a ten win streak soon let's all
go for a walk outside yeah and then the
game just goes Matt how about catch me
outside how about that but also at this
point you should know I only reference
that meme to make you angry
so congratulations have you cringed at
that you just got trolled son I spend
all day on the Internet you think I'm
not hip with the hottest means you can
just call me Rick rollin Stein and this
is my pawn shop
not nine lives I thought that was a live
bomb because it had to fuse but it was
actually just a particle effect in the
background
okay enough money to buy a spear at
heart and our first bomb it's a good
place to be
I'm gonna blow this up I'm going to take
matchstick we need more bombs
if we find attempted rock I'd be bummed
before we get a bomb at least because
that's probably a better use of our bomb
but I was banking on the fact that there
wouldn't necessarily be one in our
vicinity dogtooth good item this is
where you like having the boomerang in
particular because you can do crowd
control and then take these guys out
this is secret room access plus like an
okay damage upgrade probably shouldn't
have taken that yet you lived a secret
room is adjacent here so we'll try this
place still no tinted rocks so I don't
feel like I'm wasting my spirit hearts
yet they're wasting me no potential
spirit hearts yet this stinks
so I'm just trying to use the boomerang
I'm hoping they get burned they are not
getting burned trying to use the
boomerang productively like if we can
keep one enemy frozen it's gonna cause
problems for them because they're gonna
walk into it they're not gonna be able
to rush me down as easily and we could
have waited for mom's key but I think in
this case we really really need a deal
with the devil if we you know messed it
up and didn't get a deal with the devil
that could potentially compromise like
the whole run because I mean are you
looking at the stats that we have at the
present moment admittedly it's mostly
rate of fire that's bad but it's bad
enough that I'm genuinely genuinely
genuinely a little concerned we just
want to make sure you're safe here and
we'll use two bombs crack into this I'll
take basically anything that was
basically everything so that's so good
let me crank into our second secret room
make sure we can go up there safely play
this to get some more money and that
should be mom's key at least a good
chance of getting mom's key especially
with two more bombs left over and we
definitely like IV bag more than we like
the boomerang although we're still
waiting on the stats to really make
anything pop off here so will we have
enough so we'll grab this and then we'll
go into our item room grab the red heart
it's taken us like a hundred years to
get to this point at least leaves like
semi-functional now like this run it
seems like it could pop off I didn't
even mention really there we got a speed
upgrade on the last floor and that was
super useful but alright so this was
this was good as well we got back up to
seven cents we could buy a three cent
read hard play IV bag twice I don't know
what we'd be hoping to mill out of it
but it could possibly be half decent I
was like where did all these blues come
from I forgot we took a relax pill in
there so extremely strange
assortment of poops you ever wonder that
about like archaeology you know most
from my understanding of history most of
what we know about ancient Greece is
from finding like clay fragments of pots
buried you know deep within the the
Greek landscape Grecian landscape I have
not it doesn't matter
you ever wonder if there I go I wonder
if it's got a it's got a portrait or
it's got a frisk of grapes on it I
wonder if this was a wine cask and we
could just go back in time and talk to
like someone who is actually from
ancient Greece they'd be like that's
actually my chamber pot maybe maybe
Nagano maybe I'm very much ignorant of
the science that's behind that we ever
think that you'd be like you know if you
ever found like bathroom tile 500,000
years down the line
aliens might be like oh there's like
sweet there's a bunch of fruit on this
tile it must have been from their
kitchen nah sorry son for some reason
our wall tile in our bathroom has
pictures of pears on it look I don't
know what's up with that it's just it is
what it is no a big cat did not live
here it just says hang in there and then
it's got a picture of a cat on a line
because you know it's an encouraging
message that helps me get through the
days so in case it's not abundantly
clear um this run is pretty poor right
now our damage is fine we really just
need piercing shots or a much better
rate of fire and it'll start to feel
like whole again there's no chance of
boss rush all right secret room there's
no chance of boss rush and that's
completely okay and we should get better
oh that was so stupid
we should get better because we have
and I don't know they're both semi
useful it should get better because we
have goat head but we got to live long
enough for asking for it to get better
which could take some time here Tammy's
head okay it's one of my favorite items
in the game and we haven't had it in a
while so yeah I'm going to take Tammy's
head
the thing is it's still not that good
because our base stats are not that
impressive but we need anything that can
give us offense so IV bag I will not
accept the argument is valid that we
take Tammy's head too often because the
it's competition is IV bag which we also
take all the time so I think we're in
the clear you know with respect to that
but we need to again like in particular
piercing shots shots that can hit an
enemy shot destroy the enemy shot and
then keep doing damage to the enemy are
pretty valuable for us so there's plenty
of items by the way that fit the bill we
barely got out of there and we didn't
get out of there there's plenty of items
that fit the bill here from a deal with
the devil specifically like for example
Belial tears I have a wild those would
presumably not get destroyed when they
hit an enemies here because they're
piercing shops for some reason I always
have to ask myself whether or not
they're piercing because they're like
piercing with a conditional but they
always pierce they just get better after
they pierce I'm you but stronger oh we
got a mill this is an excel floor we got
a mill rotten baby's good enough and
more importantly it doesn't require the
use of tears to function which means
that it's actually like a static damage
dealer which is an enormous help for me
right now we are taking some serious
damage on this floor though and we
actually okay like seriously
we shouldn't be stoked about it being an
XL floor Thank You gimpy for basically
enabling my idiocy here and poor play
but it's basically taking a deal with
the devil out of the economy
which is fairly extremely bad for us at
least you got both of them that's the
big thing there these should be dusted
equally dusted got enough money for
certain to make our shop worthwhile help
not very smart on my part okay I've lost
focus I started thinking about
archaeology and it just she's got me so
hot and bothered that I got to sit down
and you know get my blood pressure back
to normal I sort of did want to be a
historian when I was younger but I also
I was ignorant of what it actually means
to be a historian I feel like there
should be a class in like ninth grade
that just teaches you what jobs do
because I don't know about you guys but
I thought like what is a mathematician
do I still sort of don't understand in
this day and age what a mathematician
does and this is the exact opposite of
me belittling the profession I actually
don't know what you do with a math
degree except I don't know I guess you
could be a math teacher for certain or
you can work in like cryptography or
something like that I don't know what
else you do what does a mathematician do
I assume with my relative you know some
knowledge of academia you do math
research what the heck is math research
like I'm so ignorant of what you do at a
high level math that math reason the
concept of math research makes no sense
to me like you're trying to find
relationships between things we haven't
discovered all those you got to be an
actual like a genius on an unfathomable
level but anyway similarly I was like
what is a historian do they know a lot
about history but you don't just get
paid to know a lot about history I guess
if you don't become a professor the jobs
might be like a little or an author may
be the jobs might be a little few and
far between
but I just genuinely don't know like
when it comes to través you can be
relatively aware of what's going on
right like what is a plumber do you know
they fix plumbing they assemble plumbing
etc etc I might not know the finer
points but I know a little bit enough to
know you want to illegally searched my
you know we're going to we're going to
go hard on this one I want 35 cents
total and I think we're going to get it
what does an electrician do it work with
electricity that's good enough IME neg
what is a story to do they work with
history because you probably want to get
a little more specific than that but you
get the idea
the idea is that I don't know I don't
know what happened there but we got lump
of coal and it made me want to be sad
about it because of the sound that it
made but it was actually sweet so I'm
not sure where they're getting that
anyway a lump of coal is helpful if we
can ever get our tears not to explode
immediately like I basically took
biology and university because I liked
biology in high school and I don't feel
that I was like lied to or anything like
that but it is a little bit of like an
ignorant concept basically you're like
hey we've taught you things in a
classroom what do you like learning
about the most all right that's what
you're going to do in college it's a
it's kind of a flawed system while both
of these are not great we'll take PJs
got a little bit more survivability on a
deal with the devil okay well yes quite
literally wouldn't mind an orbital here
to be honest with you need of course it
teaches you like what jobs do we had a
careers class but we had kind of a weird
situation like it's a mandatory half
credit course so it's like a six or
twelve week thing in high school will
take years up for certain that's
extremely warranted and they introduced
it like relatively recently like within
the past 20 years at the time it was
relatively recent at least a second lump
of coal all right we left the key behind
that's right we also know I think we're
good to go
so that was supposed to be like this
guy's going to be like your career
counselor for like six weeks or 12 weeks
and then you know you'll learn about
what professions do and it's kind of a
joke course like everybody is going to
get like at least eighty in this course
probably but it gives you kind of a
foundation for figuring out what you're
going to do for the rest of your life
which is important when you're getting
to be that age you know and everyone
goes on that court that classes a joke
which is true from like a grade
standpoint but at the same time it's
also like one of the most universally
practical classes I took in high school
except for the fact that our teacher was
like 80 years old and this isn't to
insult him but he was like having health
problems so he literally like maybe a
month into the class got a detached
retina which is apparently a fairly
serious thing it sounds like I'll just
you know put it back on there but now he
was like out of commission for the rest
of the semester so we had the same
substitute teacher every day for almost
the rest of the semester so we just
watched like a lot of videos like a lot
of videos on an extreme amount of video
so in the end I would say we probably
didn't get quite as much out of that
course as I would have liked
it's another excel floor yo not cool
buddy
I want my deals with a devil this is one
of the few situations in which like I'm
weak enough that I won't even entertain
the thought of going to boss rush land
okay just you gotta roast them you gotta
roast him he's been roasted now get on
the other side of the map and roast them
again we do want the orbital did this
run is weird it is
well let's not insult it yet first off
it's got feelings just like the rest of
us secondly gimpy is keeping us alive
thirdly we haven't been playing that
well so it's kind of rich to be like oh
the runs screwing us but third there's
eight flee wherever we are in our
metaphor here we have to item rooms left
on this floor and maybe some more you
know random stuff that could be useful
as well but with with two item rooms
left on this floor there
a conceivable chance we could get
something that completely changes the
tone of the run for example literally
any form of piercing shot and to be fair
the orbital pickup is really really good
as well as long as we don't give up too
much damage in situations where it's not
warranted feel pretty good about this I
think it would be nice to get damage a
little bit above 0.76 so we can help so
we can more reliably get a gimpy payout
or just get dark bump so that the red
hearts would get out of gimpy actually
like stand a chance to pay dividends I'm
not complaining you know again mere
seconds ago I said that give these one
of the things keeping us in the game
right now this guy is going to feel
jaunty diagonal move to them peepers aye
it's pretty bad
and might as well say that on the Box
peepers aye it's pretty bad now if you
look at this run and you look at the
time that it is 21 minutes you're like
you're not going that slowly you almost
had a chance to make it the boss rush
but you also do have to remember that
there was a excuse me that there was a
double XL setup here so we have two XL
floors in a row normally those provide
us there's a secret room here by the way
normally those provide us with a pretty
huge speed boost and a pace boost at
least a real ability to actually like
speed up the run the fact that we're
still buying schedule despite having two
of those is a pretty subpar sign the
sign that things are in a little bit of
a dangerous place
but we have improved a little bit on
this floor mostly due to the orbital
dude virgos again not horrible but
certainly not what I've been very
specifically asking for here's my
impression of NL I wanted a piercing
shot hmm
but I plain enough Isaac I feel like I
can be a little snobby about it I said
right even knowing that nobody's gonna
agree with me on that which is fair but
like you know no secret room okay so the
secret room must be up in our other room
then like this one yeah it must be right
here oh that's pretty solid
but yeah basically what I'm getting at
is like we know what we like in this
game we don't have it yet but the
options are still there now we've
already paid our dues we've gotten the
goat head we paid for it we got deal
with the devil president we fought
Krampus so our future deals with the
devil should have a higher chance to
possibly be half decent for us or at
least we know they're not going to be
the Krampus fight for a second time
although we do have to lump of coals
which I think does nothing but is at
least a curiosity this should be the end
of this fight ooh very close
we want permanent polar invincibility
and then okay this is now where we start
to pop off a little bit here missing
page two is fine and then Avedon is the
reason that missing page two is fine
because it allows us to be on spirit
hearts anyway so we effectively paid
zero for it it cursed the unknown
actually no interest whatsoever in the
hush fight but not going to turn down an
opportunity to get a few extra keys here
it's also I mean that was very dumb but
um it's also is like a huge increase in
our HP like we went down to the last
floor with maybe like four hearts from
an absolute standpoint and now I mean we
have eleven because I just threw one
away like a ding dong but
the big thing here is just don't let it
slip away I have the ambition maybe look
in my eyes this week I'm mopping floors
next week it's the fries so I'm happy
with the run as it is right now but I
want more so I'm always going to be like
trying to use the orbital to amp up our
damage and it's probably a suboptimal
decision but it's a decision that I've
made time and time again we need to
quell that ambition of some extent
ambition is great except when it is and
then I think we might be in the when it
is in territory right now you know this
run could conceivably be piloted pretty
quickly to pretty easily to a win if we
just tighten up our place but if we
start using our orbital to deal damage
to literally everything we're going to
incur a greater element of risk than is
necessary I would argue okay rotten baby
just hit him up oh ho that was close
okay a second that was pretty dumb but
at the same time will also enable us to
easily finish the boss fight and Virgo
gave us extra invincibility I guess we'd
rather have super bandage so we have
something to give away here and that
obviously did not work oh but no we
would have had one HP anyway but still
nine lives make sure we're grabbing
these bombs nothing else we'd expect to
get value out of here so we're just
going to bounce him now we're like to
guppy items on the next floor wouldn't
be wouldn't kick it out of bed for
eating crackers right I will say there's
one thing I know with certainty in Issac
I don't know much except a lot about
living in a little about love according
to Alan Jackson that's right that songs
about me you didn't know that not true I
was probably like negative for when a
lot about living and a little bout love
came out
the one thing I know is that if your
ninth win is hard your 10th wins got to
be easy it's written in the tones as far
as I'm concerned flat penny at this
point of the game might as well be the
exact same drink at his master of
unlocking so if we need one we're fine
with the other and if we don't need one
we don't need the other one either
there's no real concern for us here I
wonder about that sometimes you know
like when I was when I was like 15 16 I
was really really into the music scene
not necessarily really really into music
but really into the music scene you know
like oh the new Wolf Parade albums
coming out and blah blah pitchfork media
blah blah and I'm not even disparaging
my past self got into a lot of good
stuff as a result of that but I'd always
think like man it would have been what
if you were alive in like you know the
Madchester era when the Stone Roses were
popping off what was that like and then
I realized that like if my kids are like
that they're going to be like what was
it like growing up in the Golden Age of
like Radiohead once every three or four
albums come in or once every three or
four years coming out with a sweet
classic album and you're like well
mostly I just listened to Snoop Dogg's
nothing but a G thang on YouTube and
other meme music because the legacy
hasn't been established yet right like
now you look back and you go it would be
amazing and like a time machine and be
like I'm going to be at that first
Beatles concert or something like that
and I'm going to heckle them and say
you're never going to do anything
they're all gonna laugh at you we're not
going to fight all dude we got piercing
shots is it worth getting other stuff
here oh yes because we have nine lives
I'll take the raw damage let's go and
like let's go though cuz we're not
fighting hush but that's because you
have the perspective of knowing what's
going to happen as of right now it's
like you know oh another classic
Radiohead album surprise surprise
but there will be people like that I
hope it's like that at least because
that would make me feel like we lived in
on an era that's good for our and
everyone's always I hate I mean I've
done this ran like ten times but you
know I've been listening to a lot of men
at work lately a band that I had
previously written off as a one-hit
wonder for Down Under and maybe a
two-hit wonder for who can it be now but
you know listening to the greatest hits
I'm like this band adds some jams
overkill is like an actual cerebral
well-written song it's touching like
it's relatable there's great stuff going
on and I should know because of Colin
hey but still you know if you ever watch
a men at work music video on YouTube
which I know firsthand cuz I've been
doing so on occasion at least in between
recording Miri and Isaac episodes people
are always like this is when music was
great in 1983 and then you go back you
watch like a music video that came out
and you know 1981 this is when music was
good you go watch a recording of you
know Robert Johnson from the 1930s this
is when music was at its peak like I'm
not even convinced the people on YouTube
even enjoy music it just enjoyed the
concept of listening to something that
they feel is superior I'm obviously
being slightly facetious in this
situation but it's just so annoying
nobody goes like that the top comment is
never like wow what a great song and
wish my network was still around working
today
haha it's always what ever happened to
the radio now it's just just in Cooper
on the radio and you like one know what
I leave Garret you guys had leave Garret
to frickin Bay City Rollers you go to a
Bay City Rollers music video people will
be like this is when music was at its
peak I don't think that's true that's
what it's going to be like if YouTube
still around in like 30 years guaranteed
there will be some it's going to say
trash but that just makes me what I hate
there's going to be some trash on the
radio that was so good it's just going
to be like a series of bits and bleeps
and the kids are going to be like you
don't understand mom and you won't
understand because that's what it means
to be a part of the you know
contemporary generation however there's
going to be like Justin Bieber's sorry
music video on YouTube and have 9
billion views and all the comments are
going to be like this is when music was
really music and they will not see the
irony and I will be you know long dead
but having uploaded my brain to the
cloud I will laugh at them and say don't
these fools realize take a look at the
comments leaving all the same words oh
man
wonder if they'll ever know they're in
the best selling show David Bowie's life
on Mars credit given where credit is due
oh man ok so it's not a particularly
slow run take a look at this too slow
man take a look at the slow run beating
up the wrong guy all dan a wonder if
he'll ever know he is the Giza Linga
show but we're still like pretty below
average but we're making it up with our
piercing shots in a big way here it's
actually driving like a lot of the value
whereas our where's our is the second
secret room buddy
really
really I would have expected back here
somewhere but I mean we can make it work
oh it's there not my finest work I can't
get a street I think about the train
wreck so you should train wrecks ation
new oh you haven't heard of the train
wreck station we are we are the train
wreck station should probably be the
last Isaac episode for today my brain is
rotting out of my skull video games they
were right what can I say please be dead
okay
second secret room second secret room
three black cards should be enough to
carry us no left hand we're good to go
we don't need the bomb should be and are
are two different phrases and they're do
different phrases for two different
reasons however I think all we need is
like a little bit of help from these
chests and we're off to the races
I'm not sure if that's help or hindrance
but probably take it either way
I'm not in much of a position to be in a
say oh never mind right the boss fight
so we will not be taking that because we
got the world's greatest telefilms that
just took us directly to the box I mean
with 0.76 luck
probably not missing out on much from
like an opportunity cost standpoint and
I'm ready to go like pop this devil card
and put this around in the books man
this is the one where we proved you know
we can take a half-decent run and make
it work hopefully next run we just go
out of control you know crap on the
enemies honestly I welcome the
invincibility so
you cannot hurt me the easiest money
ever made I wanted to put myself right
under the chest so that even if the void
portal showed up it wouldn't do anything
but for now thanks for watching I hope
you guys enjoyed the episode we did
click the like button that's nine in a
row we're back in it if you enjoyed the
episode click the like button outside a
great deal of course subscribe you wanna
see more in the future but for now
thanks for watching and I will see you
next time